Feature/rust htsget (#8)
GenomicDataInfrastructure/starter-kit-htsget: README.md

More details regarding that and the way to run the services can be found in the sections below.

## HTSGET Configuration
The configuration for the htsget server exists in the folder called `config-htsget-rs`. Detailed description of the configuration options can be found in the [reference implementation repository](https://github.com/umccr/htsget-rs/tree/crypt4gh/htsget-config). The most important settings are:

#### `resolvers.object_types`
- `send_encrypted_to_client` defines whether crypt4gh should be enabled (whether htsget will assume that the files retrieved from sda download service are encrypted), and make the calculations accordingly.
- `private_key`, `public_key` allow for predefined the keys that htsget will use for communication with sda-download. If the keys are not defined, htsget will create keypairs for every request (preferred default).

#### `resolvers.storage`
- `response_url` defines the url that will be used in the response to the client from htsget.
- `forward_headers` defines whether headers from the client will be forwarded to sda-download (should be set to `true` in order to use the authentication mechanism).

#### `resolvers.storage.endpoints`

> - `index` defines the location of the index file in sda-download. This is assumed to be non-encrypted in all cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `index` defines the location of the index file in sda-download. This is assumed to be non-encrypted in all cases, as it does not contain sensitive information.
```

- `file` defines the location of the header and file requested from sda-download by htsget in order to calculate the ranges according to the request.

The values in the config file `config-htsget-rs/download-config.toml` allow for requesting encrypted partial or full files.

## Running the services
The htsget product of the starter kit depends on the storage-and-interfaces product. Specifically, the data served has to be ingested and stored in the archive included in the [storage-and-interfaces repository](https://github.com/GenomicDataInfrastructure/starter-kit-storage-and-interfaces). This is achieved by using the `docker-compose-demo.yml`, as below.

To start the services, start the individual docker compose environments from their respective root directories:
```sh

> starter-kit-storage-and-interfaces$ docker compose -f docker-compose-demo.yml up -d 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
docker compose -f docker-compose-demo.yml up -d  # in the folder starter-kit-storage-and-interfaces
```

> starter-kit-htsget$ docker compose up -d

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
docker compose up -d # in the folder starter-kit-htsget
```

Reviewer 2: It will be easier for people to copy/paste the command. Probably even better to split into two blocks.

```

The logs for the two docker compose files can be accessed using the following commands for storage-and-interfaces and htsget respectively
```sh

> starter-kit-storage-and-interfaces$ docker compose -f docker-compose-demo.yml logs -f

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
docker compose -f docker-compose-demo.yml logs -f # in the folder starter-kit-storage-and-interfaces
```

> starter-kit-htsget$ docker compose -f docker-compose.yml logs -f

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml logs -f # in the folder starter-kit-htsget
```

Reviewer 2: similar for this one

```

## Accessing data with htsget

> In order to test the htsget implementation, there needs to be some data ingested in the archive. The demo setup of storage-and-interfaces provides one dataset, `DATASET0001`, containing the file `htsnexus_test_NA12878.bam`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to test the htsget implementation, there needs to be some data ingested into the archive. The demo setup of `storage-and-interfaces` provides one dataset, `DATASET0001`, containing the file `htsnexus_test_NA12878.bam`.
```

### Preparations
Get an authentication token from the auth service of `storage-and-interefaces` using
 ```sh
 token=$(curl -s -k https://localhost:8080/tokens | jq -r '.[0]')
 ```

You also need a crypt4gh key pair. This will be used for (re-)encrypting the file before it's sent to you.
```
crypt4gh generate -n demokey
pubkey=$(base64 -w0 demokey.pub.pem)
```

### Retrieving data

> Now you should be able make the requests to the htsget server. To request the (byte range of) chromosome 11 of the file `htsnexus_test_NA12878.bam` run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you should be able to make the requests to the htsget server. To request the byte range of chromosome 11 of the file `htsnexus_test_NA12878.bam` run:
```

 ```

 The request will return a ticket of how to download the requested partial file:
 ```sh
{
  "htsget": {
    "format": "BAM",
    "urls": [
      {
        "url": "data:;base64,Y3J5cHQ0Z2gBAAAAAgAAAA=="
      },
      {
        "url": "http://localhost:8443/s3-encrypted/DATASET0001/htsnexus_test_NA12878.bam.c4gh",
        "headers": {
          "Range": "bytes=16-123",
          ...
        }
      },
      {
        "url": "data:;base64,ZAAAAAAAAACxHxjMhagEVY+4bVEZYuqYGK5Ph3jrffrMhXpc3wYWenp2ofohEUwSBOuZF3kH6TEiQsjSPGaE1bvdMQ2uUuuHLWicplUneE77G079sTW8rJIJJ1VgZecPi9cTfQ=="
      },
      {
        "url": "http://localhost:8443/s3-encrypted/DATASET0001/htsnexus_test_NA12878.bam.c4gh",
        "headers": {
          "Range": "bytes=124-1049147",
          ...
        }
      },
      {
        "url": "http://localhost:8443/s3-encrypted/DATASET0001/htsnexus_test_NA12878.bam.c4gh",
        "headers": {
          "Range": "bytes=2557120-2598042",
          "accept": "*/*",
          ...
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

This repsonse contains byte ranges (eg. `"Range": "bytes=124-1049147"`) as parts of url requests.

> This should point you to doing requests to `http://localhost:8443/s3-encrypted` (`sda-download`, from `storage-and-interfaces`) that gets you data for chromosome 11 of the file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This should guide you to make requests to `http://localhost:8443/s3-encrypted` (which is `sda-download` from `storage-and-interfaces`) to retrieve data for chromosome 11 from the file:
```

curl 'http://localhost:8443/s3-encrypted/DATASET0001/htsnexus_test_NA12878.bam' -H "Authorization: Bearer $token"  -H "Client-Public-Key: $pubkey" -H "Range: bytes=2557120-2598042" -o p11-02.bam.c4gh
```

The response from hstget also lists two data sections:
```sh
"url": "data:;base64,Y3J5cHQ0Z2gBAAAAAgAAAA=="
```
and
```sh
"url": "data:;base64,ZAAAAAAAAACxHxjMhagEVY+4bVEZYuqYGK5Ph3jrffrMhXpc3wYWenp2ofohEUwSBOuZF3kH6TEiQsjSPGaE1bvdMQ2uUuuHLWicplUneE77G079sTW8rJIJJ1VgZecPi9cTfQ==
```
These segments are part of the requested data. Save the data (eg. `Y3J5cHQ0Z2gBAAAAAgAAAA==`) to files
```sh
echo Y3J5cHQ0Z2gBAAAAAgAAAA== | base64 -d > start.b64
echo ... | base64 -d > mid.b64
```
Then concatenate all segments:
```sh
cat start.b64 p11-00.bam.c4gh mid.b64 p11-01.bam.c4gh p11-02.bam.c4gh > htsnexus_11.bam.c4gh 
```
Make sure that the file can be decrypted with your private key:
```sh
crypt4gh decrypt -s demokeys.sec.pem -f htsnexus_11.bam.c4gh
```

Finally, check that samtools can open the new file:
```sh

> samtools view htsnexus11.bam

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
samtools view htsnexus_11.bam
```
